so you walk around the city
drinking your coffee and a strange girl
approaches you and hugs you
hey mike that's where you are ready to
go
wait what firstly your name's james
secondly you weren't going anywhere you
were just having a casual walk
and lastly you have no idea who this
girl is
uh sorry i don't know you you must have
taken me for someone else
you say thinking she's a weirdo and
backing away
no no no wrong negative rewind
you shouldn't have said that maybe she
fully realizes that you don't know each
other
but still approached you for some reason
well apart from you having
kind eyes and a gorgeous smile of course
what if this girl is in danger and this
is her cry for help
okay let me cheat a little bit and show
you what might have happened to her
suppose this girl is riley she's 19
years old
an hour ago just like you she walked out
of her house in a very good mood
she went for a walk and in a couple of
hours she was to meet her friends
while standing in line for an ice cream
she noticed that some
man was staring at her from around the
corner
he was wearing black shaggy pants a
black hoodie and sunglasses
even though it's hard to recognize a
person dressed like that
she was pretty sure she'd never seen him
before
and he looked suspicious if you ever
find yourself in a similar situation
remember rule number one trust your gut
if you're feeling uncomfortable don't
take any risks
yeah we all stare at people from time to
time but it's better to watch out and be
careful
rule number two go to a safe place
it's better to avoid dark and empty
streets of course you better go pick a
well-lit
and crowded street or store even if it's
in the opposite direction from where you
are actually going
make sure to stay as close to people as
possible
check if the person is following you if
they are
then rule number three do not go home
you don't want that stalker to know your
address right
keep walking around the city and better
choose the most crowded and most
illogical routes stop to get a coffee
do some shopping go to the post office
it's the right time to do all the
unfinished business you might have
maybe the person will get tired of
following you and head home
if you want to confirm your suspicions
try this
first make several irrational turns for
example
walk around some building it's unlikely
that a person who's minding their own
business will make circles do
another way is to change the pace and
see if the person adjusts their pace to
yours
or you can enter a store walk out of it
and then come back inside
if that person returns to you are being
followed but don't panic rule number
four
be prepared make sure you have something
to fight back
for example grab the keys and keep them
in your hand
type the emergency phone number on your
cell phone in advance
to call without losing a second if need
be
during a call name your address first
only then
should you say who you are and what
happened in case you can't finish the
phone call
at least they'll know where to search if
you're in danger
and need help don't be afraid to make a
scene
fight and shout try to get everyone's
attention
it might scare off the stalker but
remember when you ask for help
always address a particular person
looking them in the eye
if you just cry everyone will keep
minding their own business
thinking someone else will help you if
you single out
someone from the crowd the person will
feel responsible
and will be more likely to help well
back to our riley
she noticed the guy was watching her so
she walked around the city
trying to get rid of him but it didn't
work
the man was still after her this didn't
look good
she called her parents and friends but
no one picked up
she still had an hour before the meeting
with her friends
and she couldn't just circle around like
that only one trick was left
before she had to make a drama in the
middle of the street
when none of your friends are around and
they can't make it to meet you
you just have to pretend like they are
around
you can approach some stranger well
someone who looks nice and kind
and pretend you know them hopefully
they'll play along
the stalker will see you're not alone
and most probably
leave for good so riley took a deep
breath
and started to look in the crowd trying
to find someone who seemed nice
out of all people she picked you
with her heart skipping a beat she ran
towards you and hugged you
hey mike that's where you are ready to
go here's where your part comes in
play along not smile hug her back
and don't give away your surprise
remember
somebody might be stalking her so you
have to look real
your first action should be to continue
talking to her like you know each other
say something casual like oh hey kiddo
how are you
and start walking with her keeping up
the conversation
pay attention to the girl's behavior she
might look nervous and scared her voice
might tremble or her hands might be
shaking
keep being friendly to calm her down and
let her know
you have her back while talking try to
discreetly
find out what it's all about but be
careful
and don't look around just like that
trying to spot any suspicious types
if there's someone still following the
girl they can see you know about them
tell the girl you wanted to show her new
photos of your cat
take out your cell phone type are you in
danger
and show her the screen if the girl nods
go to the next step
don't leave her alone keep walking
talking to her
and try to take some discreet looks
around to spot the things or
people that seem odd when you spot the
stalker
try to remember as many details about
them as possible
what they wear if there are any
accessories with their skin color
hair color height and build are but
don't look straight at them yet
use any possibility to study them like
the reflections in shop windows
mirrors or turning your head before
crossing the road
probably when the stalker notices that
the girl is not alone
and will have the company for a long
time they'll get lost
so keep going paying attention if
they're still after you
if it's already been quite a while and
they don't disappear
it's time to let them know you know
you're being followed
stop turn around and look them straight
in the eye
be confident and show them that you know
about them and want them to get lost
use this face-to-face opportunity to
spot as many
notable features of theirs as possible
so you can later describe them in every
minor detail
when they leave don't leave the girl
alone just yet
walk around for a while to make sure the
stalker really is gone
after that it's better to walk the girl
home or wherever she was going
to make sure she is safe and nothing
else threatens her
congratulations you're the hero of the
day not everyone knows this trick
so you can even initiate it yourself
wherever you are
there might be someone you might save
with just a casual talk
if you are for example in a subway and
see that some suspicious guy
is hassling a girl and she doesn't feel
comfortable about it
just step up approach her say you
haven't seen her in a while
and start a casual talk like you were
her old friend
the guy will just drift away from her
and the girl will probably be beyond
grateful for your help stay with her and
talk
until she's safe